.. _introduction-desc-label:

Introduction
------------

This database contains rich, detailed information about:
  * 9k+ deals in the pharmaceutical sector, involving 4k+
    different organizations (companies, universities, research centers, etc.);
  * contracts from those deals;
  * patents involved in a deal-contract tuple (henceforth "patent lists").

We obtained the raw data (deal data, contracts and patent lists) from BiosciDB.
First, we obtained data about 9,197 deals from BiosciDB. Then, we used a
comprehensive list of pharmaceutical companies (258 focal
firms, including ownership structure and thus subsidiaries)
(citation needed?), to identify deals that involved these companies and
to retrieve from BiosciDB the contracts and patent lists from such deals.

.. admonition:: BiosciDB

  BiosciDB is a company that developed and maintains *"the most comprehensive
  peer-reviewed reference database on biopharma alliances"*.
  The company curates a large database of biopharma deals, and obtains
  contracts such as those in our database from data released by the SEC
  (redacted and unredacted contracts), and through FOIA requests.

.. admonition:: Focal firm

  We use the term *focal firm* to refer to one of the 258 pharmaceutical
  companies (or their subsidiaries) in the list of parent companies that we
  used to retrieve deals.

  Table src.:ref:`tables-pharma_consolidation-label` contains the parent firms
  (n=258) and their subsidiaries (n=4844).


The database is therefore organized around three nodes: deals, contracts, and
patent lists:

#. Deal data includes deal size, deal type, parties, royalties, technology,
   territory, etc.
#. Contract data includes contract text segmented in clauses using machine
   learning, clause labels, named entities extracted from the text, as well
   as another text-based indicators.
#. patent lists contain the patents listed in a contract's annex, appendix or
   exhibit (although the patent lists originate in a contract, we treat contracts
   and patent lists separately)

Most of the deals in the database generate a {deal, contract, patent list} tuple.
However, some deals may be linked to several contracts, not all contracts
have an patent list, and some patent list are not linked to a contract nor a deal. More
importantly, while there are many different deal types (e.g., licensing,
cross-licensing, co-marketing, acquisition), the database contains predominantly
contracts from licensing deals. Contract and deal types are not exclusive,
however, and most contracts fit more than one category.

.. warning::

  We recommend limiting (statistical) analyses to deal-contract tuples involving
  licensing deals and companies from our initial list of pharmaceutical (focal)
  companies. The database should be representative for these deal and company
  types. Other deal types and companies are present in the database, but we do
  not expect the data to be representative for them (e.g., some companies
  are in the database only because they signed deals with our focal companies).
